 case#: 29136249 
disable 

https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/manage-billing-account?hl=en-US#close_a_billing_account


The rendered services has started on approximately November 15th/16th until recently, when the project was placed under Shutdown request.
9:22 AM
two days cause $100?
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:23 AM
Approximately, 5 days, as the project has just been recently stopped completely by placing it under a Shutdown request.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:23 AM
Having the project on such status, will surely stop all active services and resources, this includes the charges as well.
9:23 AM
but I did do anything for this project?
9:24 AM
this is my ask shutdown the project
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:24 AM
Yes, you have already shutdown the project.
9:24 AM
so if I do anything it will cause charge? no trail $300 yet?
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:25 AM
If I understand it correctly, this transactions are unwanted as the services are no longer in use?
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:25 AM
The Free trial period has already expired, since this account has obtained the Free trial period and Credits since June 2017
9:26 AM
it is 4 years ago, a lot of new service not appear yet, how do I try at that time?


Google Cloud Support, Mark9:26 AM
Hope that I was able to inform about the cause of such charges, and I wish to aid you more on this concern, though if there is anything that we can aid you more, do not hesitate to inform me about it.
9:27 AM
could you cancel this invoce? and I need close this billing account
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:28 AM
I see that you are requesting to cancel the charges, and as a valued customer, here is what I can do best.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:29 AM
I know how very important the resolution to your concern is. It's also important to me, that is why I'm treating this with urgency. And the best way for me to help you resolve your concern is to Allow me to submit a One-time courtesy adjustment, on your behalf, to our Specialized team. This request will be subjected for review and approval by them. This may take 24 to 48 hours for feedback to be provided.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:29 AM
Though before this request is submitted, we shall need to ensure that all final charges are shown and to be included on the request. For this, we need to wait for 24 to 32 hours for the system to propagate the pending charges and apply to your billing account. This is to ensure that all unwanted charges for the project is included on our request (if there would still be any unapplied charges prior to having the project stopped completely).

* This is 32 hours after the services (Shutdown project) has been stopped completely


so no trail $300 for this account, right?
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:30 AM
I shall ensure that your request are submitted directly once the final charges are already available (if there still remains unapplied charges), and we'll make sure that you are updated for any relevant progress nor feedback with such adjustment via email.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:30 AM
Rest assured, I will place a note in the case stating that your concern needs a certain urgency, and thus must be prioritized. For now, please take note of your case#: 29136249 as reference.


oogle Cloud Support, Mark9:30 AM
Yes, there is none, as the Free trial period and Credits has already expired since June 2018
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:31 AM
Which means any rendered services under this billing account shall be charged directly on the card on file.
9:31 AM
ok, I have to diable thia billing https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/manage-billing-account?hl=en-US#close_a_billing_account
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:32 AM
Better to leave the account status Open for now, as it may affect possible issues during the Adjustment period,
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:32 AM
Do not worry, I can assure you that there is no existing active nor running services which may accrue any further unwanted charges on your account.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:32 AM
You may wish to have it closed after the adjustment process has been accomplished.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:33 AM
Hope that we are able to provide information with regards to your concern for today and set you to the correct path
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:33 AM
Should you have any related concerns do not hesitate to reach back to us, and for this being said, anything else that we can provide assistance for today?
9:33 AM
do I need do close my account?
9:33 AM
by myself
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:34 AM
Yes, as due to our strict privacy and security policies on having your account and payment information secured, the only user who can manually close the account is the Account's owner (Billing administrator), wherein checking the permissions your email is listed as the Billing administrator on the account.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:35 AM
Normally, you may use the instructions you've provided, though you may wish to close it after the adjustment process is completed.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:35 AM
Do not worry, I shall remind you of this once the Adjustment is completely processed.
9:35 AM
do I need close billing accounts today now or waiting for the billing solved?
Agent is typing...

Google Cloud Support, Mark9:37 AM
We highly recommend to simply wait for the adjustment process to be completed before having the account closed, this is to avoid any uncertain issues during the Adjustment process.
Google Cloud Support, Mark9:37 AM
We do appreciate your understanding, and do not worry for any further charges, as there are no active services nor resources, which can still make charges on your account.

Google Cloud Support, Mark9:40 AM
Well, if you are worried about your account getting hacked, we highly recommend to make sure that additional security protocols are accomplished to ensure that your account and payment information are secured, and here is what we can suggest:
https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/46526?hl=en
9:41 AM
ok, thanks