# British Indian Ocean Territory
io is the ccTLD for the British Indian Ocean Territory, but recent years have seen it become synonymous with technology, gaming and start-up firms. ... They're a great opportunity for a domain hack – For example, Rub.io is a shortened URL that was used for the 2016 US presidential campaign of Marco


You may notice that a lot of tech startups and SaaS companies use the .io domain extension (E.g. Greenhouse.io, Material.io, Keywordtool.io, and Spring.io), and there’s a good reason for it. It’s similar to the abbreviation I/O, which means input/output, a common term when discussing computing processes. And it has other advantages, too. While it is technically a country domain, most people don’t connect it with its host territory. (This is similar to the ccTLD .tv for Tuvalu or .fm for the Federated States of Micronesia.)

It’s pretty easy to remember, as more companies in the tech space are using it, and it’s easy to pronounce: eye-oh. It’s short, and it’s visual, with its vertical bar followed by a circle. It’s more expensive than other domains (ranging from around $33 to $99 per year) – the price depends on which registrar you choose – but not by much. A number of well-known companies have registered this domain: yahoo.io, coke.io, and even google.io. In this case, these companies don’t actively use the domain, but have reserved them to protect their intellectual property, and most of them simply forward the .io domain to their primary domain. In fact, if you already have a .com or other domain for your brand, you might want to do the same.



https://www.finextra.com/blogposting/15244/why-io-is-the-cool-new-domain#:~:text=io%20is%20the%20ccTLD%20for,gaming%20and%20start%2Dup%20firms.&text=They're%20a%20great%20opportunity,presidential%20campaign%20of%20Marco%20Rubio.

https://www.lightercapital.com/blog/what-does-io-mean-what-is-the-io-domain/