JS: Higher Order Functions

# [000] Functions Review

Let's do a quick function review before we dive into HOF (Higher-Order-Functions)

## Anatomy of a function

Functions can be defined in several different ways:

### Function declaration

_example function declaration_

```js
function add(n1, n2) {
  // code block
  return n1 + n2;
}
```
- Functions defined like this get hoisted because it is statement/declaration and statements in javascript are defined prior to runtime. (Other statements include, if blocks, loops, const, let, var, ect);
- hoisting is a behaviour that occurs due to the way Javascript engines run (Javascript engines include V8(NodeJS, Google Chrome), Chakra(Microsoft Edge... which is gone soon :D), SpiderMonkey(Mozilla))

### Function expression

_example function expression_

```js
const add = function(n1, n2) {
  return n1 + n2;
}
```
- Functions defined like this do not get hoisted because they're expressions which get evaluated at runtime. 
- When you're using an operator, like the assignment operator `let i = 0`, assignming a value `i = 0` to the declared variable `let i` is an expression.

_arrow function expression_

Arrow functions are a shorter form of a function expression.
They also bind `this`

```js
const add = (n1, n2) => {
  return n1 + n2;
}
```

# [100] Invoking(calling) a function vs referencing a function definition.

Functions in Javascript are considered "first-class citizens" which means they're treating like any other base type within the language.

What this means is, Functions can:
- be assigned to variables
- be overwritten
- be passed into other functions as arguments
- be returned by functions

## Invoking (Calling) a function

To invoke a function you append parenthesis after the function name.
- invoking functions is a expression which must evaluate to a value
- this will execute the functions code and give you the return value

```js
add(1, 2); // returns 3
```

## Referencing a function definition

Functions in Javascript a declared function is really just a special kind of object with a property for it's name, block of code, arguments, ect. We're calling this function object the "function definition"

If you reference a function's name without invoking it you're selecting the function definition, this is like referencing a declared variable.

```js
add; // [Function: add]
```

# [200] Functions as parameters and return values

You can pass the function definition as a parameter to a function
You can return a function definition from a function

## Demo: fnAccepter

fnAccepter is a function that accepts a function as an argument. It will execute the function and `console.log` it's return value.

```js
function sayHi() {
  return "Hi";
}

function fnAccepter (fn) {
  console.log(fn());
}

fnAccepter(sayHi);
```
Let's breakdown the above example:

1) We have a function `sayHi` that returns a string of `"hi"`
2) We have a function `fnAccepter` that accepts a function definition `fn`
3) Inside the body of `fnAccepter` we `console.log` the return value of invoking `fn()`
4) We invoke `fnAccepter` passing in the definition of `sayHi` and we get `"Hi"` printed to console.

## Demo: fnReturner

fnReturner is a function that will return a function.

```js
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

function fnReturner() {
  return add;
}

const adder = fnReturner();
adder === add; //true
adder(4, 3); // returns 7
```

Let's breakdown the above example:

1) We have a function `add` that adds two parameters together.
2) We have a function `fnReturner` that will return the `add` function definition.
3) We invoke the `fnReturner()` function which returns the `add` function and set it to a variable `adder`
4) If we check equality of `adder` and `add` (`adder === add`) we get true because they're the same function.
5) we invoke `adder(4,3)` and it works.

# [300] Arrow Functions

Arrow functions are a concise, syntax sugar, way to create function expressions.

## Anatomy of Arrow Function

_example arrow func_
```js
const bark = (name) => {
  return `${name} barks ${sound}`;
}
```

Referencing the above example, arrow function expressions are made up of:
1) a set of parenthesis with arguments `(name, sound)`
2) followed by the keywords `=>` which is used to define an arrow function
3) followed by a block of code
```js
{ return `${name} barks ${sound}`; }
```

## Arrow Function with single expression body

If a arrow function only has a single expression we can omit the `return` keyword and curly braces `{}`:

```js
const bark = (bark) => `${name} barks ${sound}`;
```

## Arrow function with single expression

If a arrow function only has one argument we can omit the parenthesis around the argument:
```js
const bark = bark => `${name} barks ${sound}`;
```

### Demo: To Arrow Function

Convert the following functions to a arrow function

```js
function add(a, b) {
 return a + b;
}

function flip(fn) {
 return function(a, b) {
   return fn(b, a);
 };
}

function V(x) {
 return function(y) {
   return function(z) {
     return z(x)(y);
   };
 };
}
```

Here's the `add` and `flip` functions as `arrow functions`:

```js
const add = (a, b) => {
  return a + b;
}

const flip = (fn) => {
  return (a, b) => {
    return fn(a, b);
  }
}
```

Let's take a deeper dive into the `V` function
### Converting `V` function to arrow...

_The V function_
```js
function V(x) {
 return function(y) {
   return function(z) {
     return z(x)(y);
   };
 };
}
```

Let's change that first function...
_Turning it into an arrow function_
```js
const V = (x) => {
  return function(y) {
   return function(z) {
     return z(x)(y);
   };
 };
}
```

and the second function...
```js
const V = (x) => {
  return (y) => {
   return function(z) {
     return z(x)(y);
   };
 };
}
```

and the third function...
```js
const V = (x) => {
  return (y) => {
   return (z) => {
     return z(x)(y);
   };
 };
}
```

They all use single arguments so we can remove those parenthesis...
```js
const V = x => {
  return y => {
   return z => {
     return z(x)(y);
   };
 };
}
```

They also all only have one expression in the body so we can remove those curly braces and `return` keywords
```js
const V = x => y => z => z(x)(y);
```

Looks really weird but you'll get used to it over time.

# [400] Higher-Order Functions

Higher-Order Functions are just a fancy name for functions that accept functions as arguments and/or returns functions.

They basically operate on functions just like how they'd use numbers, strings, arrays, objects, ect.

## HOF's you may have come across

There's many methods built into JavaScript which are HOF's you may have seen some of these:

1) [Array.map()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map)
2) [Array.forEach()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/forEach)
3) [Array.sort()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort)

All of these methods accept a `function` as an argument. The `function`s that are passed in to methods/functions are called `callback`s.

_[figure:400-1] methods using callbacks_
```js
let arr = [1,2,3,4,5];
arr.map(function (v) {
  return v + 1;
})

arr.sort((a, b) => b - 1);
```
The `HOF`'s will handle invoking the `callback`s. As long as we provide one they'll do what they need to do with them.

_[figure:400-2] the callback passed into arr.map from _figure:400-1_
```js
function (v) {
  return v + 1;
} // passed into arr.map
```

_[figure:400-3] the callback passed into arr.sort from _figure:400-1_
```js
(a, b) => b - 1; // passed into arr.sort
```

The `HOF`'s implementation will determine what the `callback` should look like:
  - amount of arguments
  - what the arguments are

Looking at _figure:400-2_ and [Array.map()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map) documentation the callback specs are:
  - the `v` variable the current element being operated on
  - if a second argument provided that would be the index
  - if a third argument was provided that would be the original array being operated on

Looking at _figure:400-3_ and [Array.sort()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort) documentation the callback specs are:
  - the callback is a compareFunction
  - the first argument is the first element used for comparison
  - the second argument is the second element used for comparison

# [500] Deeper dive into HOFs

Let's make a quick HTML file called `index.html` with a script tag to a js file called `main.js`

_index.html_
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta charset="UTF-8" />
		<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
		<meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="ie=edge" />
		<title>JS: Higher-Order Functions</title>
		<!--  -->

		<script src="main.js"></script>

		<!--  -->
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>JS: Higher-Order Functions</h1>
	</body>
</html>
```

## Demo: A Loud Function Part 1

Let's make a file called `main.js` and put the following demos in that file.

1) Create a function, loud, that takes a function, calls it and returns its return value.
2) Before calling the function, log `Calling ${fn.name}`.
3) After calling the function, log `Called ${fn.name} & returned ${value}`

```js
function loud(fn) {
  console.log(`Calling ${fn.name}`);
  const value = fn();
  console.log(`Called ${fn.name}`);
  return value;
}
```

## Exercise: A Loud Function Part 2

1) Update, loud, to support an extra argument, logFn. Make it the first argument.
2) It should be a logging function such as `console.info`
3) It should be used to log instead of hard-coding `console.log`

console is a global object that contains a bunch of methods to print stuff to the terminals. `.log` is one that we use very often, but others simlar too it like `.info`, `.warn`, `.error`, `.table`, `.dir`, ect. These all print stuff out but with some slight differences.

Sometime's the different log methods look the same if they're being printed in a bash terminal so we made the `index.html` file so we can use the chrome console to see the different logs.

```js
function loud(fn, callback) {
  logFn(`Calling ${callback.name}`);
  const value = callback();
  logFn(`Called ${callback.name}`);
  return value;
}
```

# [600] Built in Array HOF's

Array object's have a bunch of built in methods which are Higher-Order Functions! Let's take a look at some

## Array.each()

[`.each()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/forEach) will call function on each element of an array

_arrayHOFs.js_
```js
const arr = [1,2,3,4,5];

arr.forEach(element => console.log(element)); // logs each element of arr
```

## Re-Implementing Array.each()

To get a better understand of how `Array.each()` works let's re-implement the `Array.each()` method!

This function 'each' which will accept an `arr` to operate on and a `callback` to execute on each element.

###### _arrayHOFs.js re-creating Array.each()_
```js
const arr = [1,2,3,4,5];

function each(arr, callback) {
  for (let element of arr) {
    callback(element);
  }
}
```

## Array.map()

`Array.map()` will apply a function to each element of an array and return a new array with the results of that function

###### _arrayHOFs.js_
```js
const strings = ["a", "b", "c", "d", "e"];

arr.map((element, index) => {
  return element.repeat(index);
}); // returns a new array that looks like ['','b','cc','ddd','eeee']
```

## Let's re-implement `Array.map()`

###### _arrayHOFs.js_

```js
function ourMap(arr, callback) {
  const newArr = [];
  for (let element of arr) {
    newArr.push(callback(element));
  }
  return newArr;
}
```

## [Array.reduce()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/reduce)

Array.reduce is a weird function to understand but is actually pretty simple.

`Array.reduce()` will apply a function against an accumulator.

The "accumulator" will be the result of the last invocation of the callback or the initial value if it was provided

Let's use it.

###### _arrayHOFs.js_
```js
const add = (a, b) => a + b;
arr.reduce((accumulator, element, index) => {
  return accumulator + element;
}); // 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5; 15

// if you provide a second argument to the reduce() function that will be the initial value.
arr.reduce((accumulator, element, index) => {
  return accumulator + element;
}, 5); // 5 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5; 20;
```

## Re-Implementing `Array.reduce()`

###### _arrayHOFs.js_
```js
function reducer(arr, callback, initialValue) {
  let accumulator = arr.shift() || initialValue;
  for (let element of arr) {
    accumulator = callback(accumulator, element);
  }
  return accumulator;
}
```

Sweet we've re-implemented Array.reduce... but if what happens when I call it twice on an array?

###### _arrayHOFs.js_
```js
reducer(arr, add); // 15
reducer(arr, add); // 14 ???? WHAT
```

This is happening because our function is mutating the original array due to the `.shift()` method. How do we fix this?

# [700] Recursion

Recursion is when you do an action over and over again.

A Recursive function is a function that calls itself... and if a function calls itself that call is going to call it self... and that call's call is going to call itself... and it'll just keep going :D. **UNTIL a break case**.

A Recursive funciton must have a termination condition to break out of the recursive call. Otherwise you'll get a stack overflow exception

## What's a stack?
Ever heard of stackoverflow, A developers favourite site? Well it's name is based off of this stack overflow exception.

A stack is a first-in-last-out data structure which is also implemented in runtimes

_A runtime is a platform that your code runs on for exmaple NodeJS is a javascript runtime_

Whenever you invoke a function you place that function on the `call stack`. When that function `return`s a value it gets popped off the call stack.

Recursive Functions take advantage of this `Call Stack` to do work.

Let's implement a simple Recursive function to add all numbers of an array.

###### _recursion.js_
```js
function sum(arr) {
  if(arr.length === 0) {
    return 0;
  } else {
    // arr[0] is the first element in the array
    // arr.slice(1); will remove the first element from the array and return the rest
    return arr[0] + sum(arr.slice(1));
  }
}
```

Let's see whats going on in the above example:
1) Our break case is when the `arr` being passed in has a length of 0
  a) If the lenght is 0, then we don't want to call `sum` again instead returning 0;
2) When our break case isn't met we want to move onto our recursive case
  a) We take the first in the array and add it to the result of the recursive call
  b) in our recursive case we always want to increment closer to our termination case, so we've passed `arr.slice(1)` (the array with the first element gone) to the `sum` function.

## Array Destructuring
We can clean this code up a bit by using Array destructuring


```js
function sum([first, ...rest]) {
  if(rest.length < 1) {
    return first;
  } else {
    return first + sum(rest);
  }
}
```

## Recursive Factorial

A factorial is a product of an integer and all the integers below it. For example 4 factorial (4!) is 24. 4 * 3 * 2 * 1 = 24

Write a function to get teh factorial of a number

```js
function factorial(n) {
  if (n === 1) {
    return n;
  } else {
    return n * factorial(n-1);
  }
}

console.log(factorial(4));
```

## Reverse a string

```js
function reverse(str) {
  if(str.length === 0) {
    return ""
  } else {
    return str[str.length - 1] + reverse(str.slice(0, -1));
  }
}

console.log(reverse("hello"));
```

## Notes on Recursion

Any recursive solution can be solved iteratively and vice versa

Recursion can be used to solve problems elegantly. Very useful when a problem can be solved by doing the same sub-problem repeatedly.

Recursion is usually slower than iteration.

## Problems solved by Recursion easily:
1) Traversing Trees
2) Traversing Arrays of unknown depth
3) Traversing LinkedLists
4) Dynamic Programming
5) Sorting

# [800] Benchmarking

Benchmarking is the process of measuring performance of something.

In Javascript we have the `console.time` and `console.timeEnd` methods that can help track the amount of time it takes to execute code. Let's benchmark recursive solutions vs their iterative counterparts

```js
function sumRecursive(arr) {
  if(arr.length === 0) {
    return 0;
  } else {
    // arr[0] is the first element in the array
    // arr.slice(1); will remove the first element from the array and return the rest
    return arr[0] + sum(arr.slice(1));
  }
}

function sumIteration(arr) {
  let sum = 0;
  for (let element of arr) {
    sum += element;
  }
  return sum;
}

const array = [];
let i = 1;
// fill the array up with numbers 1 to 4999
while (array.length < 5000) {
  array.push(i);
  i++;
}

console.time('a'); // starts a timer called 'a'
sum(array); // execute some code
console.timeEnd('a'); // print how much time has passed since creating the 'a' timer

console.time('b'); // starts a timer called 'b'
sumIteration(array); // execute some code
console.timeEnd('b'); // print how much time has passed since creating the 'b' timer
```



# [900] [Haskell](https://www.haskell.org/)

If you like Recursion, splitting problems into a bunch of small problems, Math... Check out haskell
